TODO.md, before:

# syntax

- [syntax] cons -- `[car | cdr]`

- [syntax] cons -- `[a, b | c]`

- [syntax] optional `;` for `let`

- [syntax] require comma in object literal

- [syntax] be able to write method in object literal

# core features

- `Fn` be able to annotate argument type and return type
- support using `=` to do local definitions in class

# inductive datatype

> Inductive type can greatly reduce the number of expressions,
> after then all other works would be easier.

- note about the intuition of Noetherian induction

- structural induction as a special case of Noetherian induction

- [prepare test] `Nat` as `datatype`
- [prepare test] `List` as `datatype`
- [prepare test] `Vector` as `datatype`
- [prepare test] `Either` as `datatype`
- [prepare test] `Fin` as `datatype`
- [prepare test] `LessThan` as `datatype`

- `Stmt.Datatype` -- `datatype` definition

# use `unify` to replace `readback`

- Value.unify -- pi/fn-value.ts & pi/im-fn-value.ts

  - typed directed `unify`
  - bidirectional `unify`
  - handle eta-expansion in `unify`

- Value.unify -- cls/nil-cls-value.ts
- Value.unify -- cls/cls-value.ts
- Value.unify -- cls/cons-cls-value.ts
- Value.unify -- cls/obj-value.ts
- Value.unify -- cls/fulfilled-cls-value.ts

- `Subst.unify` occur check -- use `free_names`

# subtype

- `check` use `subtype` instead of `conversion`
  - `subtype` should be implemented as a `subtype` function and `Value.subtype` method
  - `subtype` function default to `conversion`
  - `Value.subtype` call `subtype` for recursion

- when we do a typed binding, we need to be able to refine the declared type
  - this is specially needed for `<var>: <fulfilled class> = <object>`
  - this must also recurse into the structure of nested class and object, maybe even for pi type

# narration

- `exps/elaborate` -- narration
- `exps/todo` -- narration
- `exps/type` -- narration
- `exps/the` -- narration
- `exps/let` -- narration

- `exps/cls/cls-closure` -- narration
- `exps/cls/nil-cls` -- narration
- `exps/cls/fulfilled-cls` -- narration
- `exps/cls/dot` -- narration
- `exps/cls/obj` -- narration
- `exps/cls/cls` -- narration
- `exps/cls/cons-cls` -- narration
- `exps/cls/ext` -- narration

- `exps/sigma/car` -- narration
- `exps/sigma/cons` -- narration
- `exps/sigma/cdr` -- narration
- `exps/sigma/sigma` -- narration

- `exps/pi/ap` -- narration
- `exps/pi/fn` -- narration
- `exps/pi/pi` -- narration

- `exps/im-pi/im-ap-insertion` -- narration
- `exps/im-pi/im-pi` -- narration
- `exps/im-pi/im-fn-insertion` -- narration
- `exps/im-pi/im-fn` -- narration

- `exps/equal/refl` -- narration
- `exps/equal/the-same` -- narration
- `exps/equal/same` -- narration
- `exps/equal/replace` -- narration
- `exps/equal/same-as-chart` -- narration
- `exps/equal/equal` -- narration

- `exps/str/quote` -- narration
- `exps/str/str` -- narration

## inductive datatype

- `exps/absurd/absurd` -- narration
- `exps/absurd/absurd-ind` -- narration

- `exps/trivial/sole` -- narration
- `exps/trivial/trivial` -- narration

- `exps/nat/nat` -- narration
- `exps/nat/nat-ind` -- narration
- `exps/nat/zero` -- narration
- `exps/nat/add1` -- narration
- `exps/nat/nat-rec` -- narration

- `exps/list/list-rec` -- narration
- `exps/list/li` -- narration
- `exps/list/list-ind` -- narration
- `exps/list/list` -- narration
- `exps/list/nil` -- narration

- `exps/vector/vector-head` -- narration
- `exps/vector/vector-ind` -- narration
- `exps/vector/vector` -- narration
- `exps/vector/vecnil` -- narration
- `exps/vector/vec` -- narration
- `exps/vector/vector-tail` -- narration

- `exps/either/either` -- narration
- `exps/either/either-ind` -- narration
- `exps/either/inl` -- narration
- `exps/either/inr` -- narration

# quotient type

- learn from lean

# books

- [books] revise the little book exercises

  - inline all the motive, and see will the proofs read better.

- [books] [EWD1240a] A little bit of lattice theory
  - To test our system.
  - This paper is about the relation between PartialOrder and Lattice.
  - Learn from the story line for teaching.

- [book] formalize infinite descent as a consequence of induction on natural number:
  - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematical_induction#Infinite_descent
  - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proof_by_infinite_descent

- [book] formalize complete induction as a consequence of induction on natural number:
  - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematical_induction#Complete_(strong)_induction

- [books] Algebraic structures -- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Algebraic_structure
- [books] Lattice theory
- [books] Closure system -- for FCA
- [books] Topology theory
- [books] Category of Groups
- [books] Number theroy -- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Number_theory

# narration

- `@elab` support `@elab(<name>, <exp>)`

  - maybe use this to fix repeated output of `@elab`

- narration for the computation rules

  - eta rule & sameness rule

  - These rules can not be narrated in our implementation of NbE,
    maybe will be able to narrate them, if we use unification instead of NbE.

# book manager

- [book manager] [cli] download book from `references` specified in `book.json`

- [book manager] be able to resolve module in book of `references`

  - we do not need to use book as module, we only need to be able to resolve module.

# error report

- [problem] `exps/var` -- how to handle `span` when doing a `subst`?

# optimization

- [optimization] use native `BigInt` as `Nat`

  - learn from constraint logic programming (CLP)

# bug

- [bug] `11.md` -- the socpe of implicit argument `length` is wrong

  - if we move definition of `our_vector_ind` after `import { length } ...`,
    lexical scope will fail.

- [bug] fix type check error report on wrong number of elements

  in `07.md`:

  ``` cicada
  drop_last(String, 3, vec! ["1", "2", "3", "LAST"])
  drop_last(String, 3, vec! ["1", "2", "LAST"])
  ```

- `Book` -- the use of cached modules in `Book.load` is not safe in concurrent environment

# maybe

- [maybe] offset in `CodeBlock`

Commit message:

- merge `notes/syntax-summary.md` into `parser/tests`

TODO.md, after:

# syntax

- parser-tester-instance.ts

- [syntax] optional `return` in last expression of function body

- [syntax] optional `;` for `let`
- [syntax] let -- fix `repr` -- print the optional `;`

- [syntax] cons -- `[car | cdr]`
- [syntax] cons -- `[a, b | c]`

- [syntax] require comma in object literal
- [syntax] be able to write method in object literal

# core features

- `Fn` be able to annotate argument type and return type
- support using `=` to do local definitions in class

# inductive datatype

> Inductive type can greatly reduce the number of expressions,
> after then all other works would be easier.

- note about the intuition of Noetherian induction

- structural induction as a special case of Noetherian induction

- [prepare test] `Nat` as `datatype`
- [prepare test] `List` as `datatype`
- [prepare test] `Vector` as `datatype`
- [prepare test] `Either` as `datatype`
- [prepare test] `Fin` as `datatype`
- [prepare test] `LessThan` as `datatype`

- `Stmt.Datatype` -- `datatype` definition

# use `unify` to replace `readback`

- Value.unify -- pi/fn-value.ts & pi/im-fn-value.ts

  - typed directed `unify`
  - bidirectional `unify`
  - handle eta-expansion in `unify`

- Value.unify -- cls/nil-cls-value.ts
- Value.unify -- cls/cls-value.ts
- Value.unify -- cls/cons-cls-value.ts
- Value.unify -- cls/obj-value.ts
- Value.unify -- cls/fulfilled-cls-value.ts

- `Subst.unify` occur check -- use `free_names`

# subtype

- `check` use `subtype` instead of `conversion`
  - `subtype` should be implemented as a `subtype` function and `Value.subtype` method
  - `subtype` function default to `conversion`
  - `Value.subtype` call `subtype` for recursion

- when we do a typed binding, we need to be able to refine the declared type
  - this is specially needed for `<var>: <fulfilled class> = <object>`
  - this must also recurse into the structure of nested class and object, maybe even for pi type

# narration

- `exps/elaborate` -- narration
- `exps/todo` -- narration
- `exps/type` -- narration
- `exps/the` -- narration
- `exps/let` -- narration

- `exps/cls/cls-closure` -- narration
- `exps/cls/nil-cls` -- narration
- `exps/cls/fulfilled-cls` -- narration
- `exps/cls/dot` -- narration
- `exps/cls/obj` -- narration
- `exps/cls/cls` -- narration
- `exps/cls/cons-cls` -- narration
- `exps/cls/ext` -- narration

- `exps/sigma/car` -- narration
- `exps/sigma/cons` -- narration
- `exps/sigma/cdr` -- narration
- `exps/sigma/sigma` -- narration

- `exps/pi/ap` -- narration
- `exps/pi/fn` -- narration
- `exps/pi/pi` -- narration

- `exps/im-pi/im-ap-insertion` -- narration
- `exps/im-pi/im-pi` -- narration
- `exps/im-pi/im-fn-insertion` -- narration
- `exps/im-pi/im-fn` -- narration

- `exps/equal/refl` -- narration
- `exps/equal/the-same` -- narration
- `exps/equal/same` -- narration
- `exps/equal/replace` -- narration
- `exps/equal/same-as-chart` -- narration
- `exps/equal/equal` -- narration

- `exps/str/quote` -- narration
- `exps/str/str` -- narration

## inductive datatype

- `exps/absurd/absurd` -- narration
- `exps/absurd/absurd-ind` -- narration

- `exps/trivial/sole` -- narration
- `exps/trivial/trivial` -- narration

- `exps/nat/nat` -- narration
- `exps/nat/nat-ind` -- narration
- `exps/nat/zero` -- narration
- `exps/nat/add1` -- narration
- `exps/nat/nat-rec` -- narration

- `exps/list/list-rec` -- narration
- `exps/list/li` -- narration
- `exps/list/list-ind` -- narration
- `exps/list/list` -- narration
- `exps/list/nil` -- narration

- `exps/vector/vector-head` -- narration
- `exps/vector/vector-ind` -- narration
- `exps/vector/vector` -- narration
- `exps/vector/vecnil` -- narration
- `exps/vector/vec` -- narration
- `exps/vector/vector-tail` -- narration

- `exps/either/either` -- narration
- `exps/either/either-ind` -- narration
- `exps/either/inl` -- narration
- `exps/either/inr` -- narration

# quotient type

- learn from lean

# books

- [books] revise the little book exercises

  - inline all the motive, and see will the proofs read better.

- [books] [EWD1240a] A little bit of lattice theory
  - To test our system.
  - This paper is about the relation between PartialOrder and Lattice.
  - Learn from the story line for teaching.

- [book] formalize infinite descent as a consequence of induction on natural number:
  - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematical_induction#Infinite_descent
  - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proof_by_infinite_descent

- [book] formalize complete induction as a consequence of induction on natural number:
  - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematical_induction#Complete_(strong)_induction

- [books] Algebraic structures -- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Algebraic_structure
- [books] Lattice theory
- [books] Closure system -- for FCA
- [books] Topology theory
- [books] Category of Groups
- [books] Number theroy -- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Number_theory

# narration

- `@elab` support `@elab(<name>, <exp>)`

  - maybe use this to fix repeated output of `@elab`

- narration for the computation rules

  - eta rule & sameness rule

  - These rules can not be narrated in our implementation of NbE,
    maybe will be able to narrate them, if we use unification instead of NbE.

# book manager

- [book manager] [cli] download book from `references` specified in `book.json`

- [book manager] be able to resolve module in book of `references`

  - we do not need to use book as module, we only need to be able to resolve module.

# error report

- [problem] `exps/var` -- how to handle `span` when doing a `subst`?

# optimization

- [optimization] use native `BigInt` as `Nat`

  - learn from constraint logic programming (CLP)

# bug

- [bug] `11.md` -- the socpe of implicit argument `length` is wrong

  - if we move definition of `our_vector_ind` after `import { length } ...`,
    lexical scope will fail.

- [bug] fix type check error report on wrong number of elements

  in `07.md`:

  ``` cicada
  drop_last(String, 3, vec! ["1", "2", "3", "LAST"])
  drop_last(String, 3, vec! ["1", "2", "LAST"])
  ```

- `Book` -- the use of cached modules in `Book.load` is not safe in concurrent environment

# maybe

- [maybe] offset in `CodeBlock`
